Apache Ranger plugin (#13297)
trinodb/trino: plugin/trino-ranger/README.md

# Trino-Ranger plugin

> This plugin is designed to be build and run inside Trino.
> 
> It works with vanilla Apache Ranger, version 2.2.1 and up. You dont need to customize Ranger at all.
> 
> Here are the setup steps.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apache Ranger is a framework to enable comprehensive data security across many platforms, including Trino. Rather than maintain the plugin with the Apache Ranger project, this plugin is designed to be built and run inside Trino.

It works with vanilla Apache Ranger, version 2.2.1 and up. You don't need to customize Ranger at all.
```

Reviewer 2: Apache Ranger is trademarked by the ASF, so saying vanilla Apache Ranger seems a bit redundant?

Author: @cbaenziger vanilla Ranger means ZERO changes in Ranger. Works out of the box. Happy to change the wording.

### Full Enterprise ready Apache Ranger setup

>  * Install and startup Ranger

Reviewer: I would like to break this up a bit and avoid the "quick and dirty" terminology. Quick may indicate that it should be simple and make someone feel dumb if they get stuck. Dirty may indicate that it's not ready for production. 

Happy to help you break this up. We'll also likely want to make some video enablement around this. That will give me a chance to actually run through and validate these steps and any potential hiccups users might encounter.

Author: > We'll also likely want to make some video enablement around this.

Ya, I was thinking the same thing. IMO, ASF Ranger community has some poor job of documentation. Worse I have seen.

       * git clone --recursive --branch release-ranger-2.2.0  https://github.com/apache/ranger
     * Build Ranger. Here is the commands I use
       * mvn -e -X clean package -pl '!plugin-kylin,!ranger-kylin-plugin-shim'  -DskipTests
     * You are looking for all of the build targets under "target/ranger-*.tar.gz"
     * Copy the main Ranger file to your binary install directory and expand it. Lets call this directory $RANGER_HOME
       * The main service to install is the ranger-$RANGER_VERSION-admin.tar.gz
     * Ranger has 2 configuration files that generate the full ranger install
       * $RANGER_HOME/install.properties
         * You need to generate this config. There is already a sample install.properties extracted from the admin.tar.gz file
           * Most of the defaults work fine. The configs you want to pay attention to are
             * PYTHON_COMMAND_INVOKER, DB_FLAVOR, SQL_CONNECTOR_JAR, db_root_user, db_root_password, db_host, db_name, db_user, db_password, rangerAdmin_password, rangerTagsync_password, rangerUsersync_password, keyadmin_password
       * $RANGER_HOME/usersync/install.properties

>          * In most enterprise environments, ActiveDirectory/LDAP are used to manage users and their roles.

Reviewer: We should likely have a separate section for LDAP that we reference here. That would make this section shorter and also leave it up to the reader if they want to just play around they can do as they please. I think the recommendation is sound but not everyone is ready to immediately jump into an LDAP setup.

Author: > We should likely have a separate section for LDAP

Agreed. This should be 2 separate setups. LDAP or stand-alone.

         ```
         ranger_admin_pid=`cat /run/ranger/rangeradmin.pid` > /dev/null 2>&1

         echo "${0##*/}:$LINENO: Waiting for ranger_admin_pid = $ranger_admin_pid"

         while s=`ps -p $ranger_admin_pid -o s=` && [[ "$s" && "$s" != 'Z' ]]; do
             sleep 1
         done

         echo "${0##*/}:$LINENO: Ranger admin service exited!!!"
         ```

     * Now try and start the AD/LDAP usersync serivce
       * $RANGER_HOME/usersync/ranger-usersync-services.sh start
       * NOTE: If you are running multiple instances of the Ranger UI, you should only ever have 1 and only 1 AD/LDAP usersync service running. Your groups will not properly sync otherwise.
     * Now login to the ranger UI and configure the Trino service.
       * Example:
         * http://localhost:6080
         * User: admin, Password: (defined above in rangerAdmin_password)
     * Create your Trino service.
       * The name is important and needs to be configured in the access-control-ranger.properties file. As of version 2.2.0, just use the Presto service type. Presto, also known as PrestoSQL, is the old name for Trino.

>        * The defult policies that Ranger installs under your above service is WIDE open. Everything works for everyone. I will not document the full ranger setup.

Reviewer: We should document the full ranger setup somewhere in Trino land though and point to it.

Author: Where?
